In this video, we will learn about Structure as a Parameter.
If you are sending a Structure as Parameter to some function, it may be Call by Value or Call by
Address, Call by Reference is there in C++.
So I will show you Call by Reference also.
So first, let us look at Call by Value method.
See, for that already I have an example this is a structure rectangle having length and breadth as members.
Then I have a main function having a variable of type rectangle and it initialized with it 10 and 5,
so a variable is created with values 10 and 5.
Now I want a function to calculate the area of rectangle by multiplying length and breadth. So I want to write a function
called area, so this function, the selection is already here.
Now what I should pass from here?
Shall I pass length separate,
breadth separate?
No need, You can send the structure itself.
Yes, that is the benefit of structure.
You can send the structure itself, and the structure is carrying length and breadth.
So both will be passed as one
Parameter.
So it will be passed as a single variable, single data member.
So write r here.
So structure is passed as parameter.
Now what should be the parameter type of this function?
So the argument type should be struct rectangle r
.
So it's rectangle r
This is Call by Value.
So instead of r, I will say, r1, just a change of name so you should not feel that they are same,
this variable is different, that variable is different.
So I have taken parameter as r1. Now, that is Call by Value because here I did not write any
* or I did not write &.
This is Call by Value. So, in Call by Value what happens? This object or this variable is passed by value,
So a new variable will be created here, a new variable r1, and it will have its own member that is
length and breadth, right.
So the values will be copied here.
So it means separate object will be created.
Yes, separate object will be created in Call by Value and everything will be copied in the corresponding
members.
This is the benefit of structure.
This is one more thing, one more useful feature. Now, here, what I want to do?
Just calculate area.
So I have to multiply length and breadth. So, directly I will write down, return, I will directly write down in the return
statement r1 . length
So r1's length, right? into r1 . breadth that's all. It will return the result and this printf
will print it. This is Call by Value.
Now one thing, inside this one if I make any changes, if I say
r1 . length ++ , if I modify
length, before returning, so this becomes 11.
So will it change this one?
No it will not change that one.
It is Call by Value.
So the actual parameter will not be modified. This is actual parameter, and this is a formal parameter.
If you're making changes to formal, it will not affect actual.
Right?
This is one thing.
Now,
Next I will show you Call by Reference.
So, for Call by Reference, I don't have to do anything much.
It will be same thing only, and only the thing I have to do here is I should write & r1. Now, that's a
reference.
So a new object will not be created but the same thing is called as r1 also.
Yes we have already learned about the references.
So the same thing is called as r1 and you know very well that this will not be a separate block
of machine code, it will be pasted at the place of function call.
We have already learned about this.
Only that I have to write & and, rest of the things remain same only, then if I say r1 . length ++
r1 . length ++
Yes this is modified.
This will become 11 that same thing gets modified, right.
So, though for calculating area, I don't need to Call a reference, for calculating area I need to Call
by Value, because it is just supposed to read the values.
So you should know very well, that which function should use which method for.
parameter passing, right.
So this needs Call by Value but also I have explained you by Call by Reference.
How to do that.
In that reference, I can use dot operator.
Yes.
dot operator
Simple as a normal object or normal variable.
Now next, I will show you Call by Address.
So for that I will change the function.
I will write down another function for Call by Address.
Now, for Call by Address, I have an example, I'm calling the function name as change length. Then suppose, I want to
change this length, right.
I want to make it 15, so I can make changes here also
I can make changes also.
No I want it to be done by a function, I don't want to do anything inside main ( ) function, right.
Main function, we should imagine it like a manager and he's having all his assistants and he didn't want
to do anything by himself.
He just want to assign the job to all his assistant.
He knows how to do the work what the work should be done.
So every work he would assign to assistants, so we should imagine it like this.
So main function can change but main function is not doing it, assistant will do it.
So that is change length function.
So we want this function to change this length.
So if you want some function to modify actual parameter then it must be called by the method
Call by Reference.
So we are learning Call by Address
Let us write Call by Address.
First of all, from here I should go on that function.
So yes I should call that function change length, right.
Then what is the parameter I should pass? rectangle,
by Address.
So I should pass &, address, so here what it should take?
It should take it as a pointer, so struct rectangle pointer, right.
* p , then along with this
also, I should pass the new length.
So let us say want to make it as 20, instead of 15 let us say 20 then it should also take new
length, so it is integer l, so it is taking by pointer.
So when you call this function how it looks like, this p is a pointer that belongs to this function and
this is pointing on this one.
Now we have already learned pointer to a structure.
So now you can see that pointer to a structure is useful in  parameter passing also. I want to modify
that length, so say, p ->
Because for accessing this member indirectly using pointer we have to use ->, p -> length = l ;
So this length would be modified to 20. That's it.
So this is how
We can use Call by Address for the structure.
So this type of thing I have used in my course.
So whenever I'm writing structure and function so wherever I have to make changes in a structure
I'm using Call by Address, because I'm writing C language code, right.
So basic code I'm writing in C language only, so I have used Call by Address.
So from here I'm sending an address and then I'm using a pointer and by using arrow, I accessing the
members.
So you should be familiar with this code and if you are comfortable with this one then you can smoothly
follow the rest of the topics.
Right.
So this is the method for Call by Address.
Now one more thing I have to show you.
I'll remove this and they'll explain you.
One more thing that I have to show you.
I have defined a structure here having array as a data member.
And one more integer data member, 2 data members I have taken. Mainly array is important there. So,
we'll focus on array. Here, inside the main function I have created a variable of that type struct test
and the name is t, and I have also initialized it so it will have two members, array and n.
So array, the size of the array is 5 and one more integer variable is there.
So all are initialized. Now, can we send
structure as a parameter in Call by Value?
Yes.
Call by Value, we can send. But can we send an array with Call by Value?
No, array can be sent only by Call by Address, already we have discussed this in previous video, then
but this is structure having an array.
Can you pass this by value?
Yes.
Structure you can pass by value even if it is having an array inside.
So that's the important thing we are learning now.
So here I have a function called fun and I'm taking it as a Call by Value.
So from here on passing t, so whether it works? yes it works.
So what happens when this is passed?
So again a new t1 is created with an array.
Right.
And also n, and every thing from here, it will be copied here.
2, 4, 6, 8, 10.
And also value 5, everything will be copied. So,when a structure is passed by value even if it is having an array
an array will be created separately in the member and it will be filled.
So imagine all these values has to be copied automatically just done by the compiler.
So this is time consuming.
That is the reason the compiler doesn't support array by value, they allow only Call by Reference. But difference is
inside the structure they support it. They have to do it.
So this will be copied. We are not copying it. Internally it is happening means compiler will do this.
.
So yes now if I make any changes, how I can access this one? I can say  t1 . A, because it's own member,
Right?
It's Call by Value.
And I can say, t1 . A[0] = 10;
So this will become 10, right.
So I can change the value, t1 . A[1] = 9;
So this will become 9.
But this will not change, because this is Call by Value.
So I can use dot operator and access the members.
So that's all, We have seen how we can pass structure as parameter.
We have seen Call by Value, We have seen Called by Reference, We have seen Call by Address, and also
we have seen that, even if an array is there inside a structure, that can be passed by value. Structure can
be Passed by Value.
That's all in this video.